azure-monitor-ref/supported-metrics/microsoft-azuresphere-catalogs-metrics.md, before:

---
title: Supported metrics - microsoft.azuresphere/catalogs
description: Reference for microsoft.azuresphere/catalogs metrics in Azure Monitor.
ms.topic: reference
ms.service: azure-monitor
ms.author: edbaynash
author: EdB-MSFT
ms.date: 10/18/2023
ms.custom: microsoft.azuresphere/catalogs, naam
---




# Supported metrics for microsoft.azuresphere/catalogs


The following table lists the metrics available for the microsoft.azuresphere/catalogs resource type.

  
    
**Table headings**
  
**Metric** - The metric display name as it appears in the Azure portal.  
**Name in Rest API** - Metric name as referred to in the REST API.  
**Unit** - Unit of measure.  
**Aggregation** - The default aggregation type. Valid values: Average, Minimum, Maximum, Total, Count.  
**Dimensions** - Dimensions available for the metric.  
**Time Grains** - Intervals at which the metric is sampled. For example, `PT1M` indicates that the metric is sampled every minute, `PT30M` every 30 minutes, `PT1H` every hour, and so on.  
**DS Export**- Whether the metric is exportable to Azure Monitor Logs via Diagnostic Settings.  


   

   
    
[!INCLUDE [microsoft.azuresphere/catalogs](./includes/microsoft-azuresphere-catalogs-metrics-include.md)]

Commit message:

[AUTOGEN] Auto updated microsoft-azuresphere-catalogs-metrics.md

azure-monitor-ref/supported-metrics/microsoft-azuresphere-catalogs-metrics.md, after:

---
title: Supported metrics - microsoft.azuresphere/catalogs
description: Reference for microsoft.azuresphere/catalogs metrics in Azure Monitor.
ms.topic: reference
ms.service: azure-monitor
ms.author: edbaynash
author: EdB-MSFT
ms.date: 01/10/2024
ms.custom: microsoft.azuresphere/catalogs, naam

# NOTE:  This content is automatically generated using API calls to Azure. Any edits made on these files will be overwritten in the next run of the script. 

---




# Supported metrics for microsoft.azuresphere/catalogs


The following table lists the metrics available for the microsoft.azuresphere/catalogs resource type.

  
    
**Table headings**
  
**Metric** - The metric display name as it appears in the Azure portal.  
**Name in Rest API** - Metric name as referred to in the REST API.  
**Unit** - Unit of measure.  
**Aggregation** - The default aggregation type. Valid values: Average, Minimum, Maximum, Total, Count.  
**Dimensions** - Dimensions available for the metric.  
**Time Grains** - Intervals at which the metric is sampled. For example, `PT1M` indicates that the metric is sampled every minute, `PT30M` every 30 minutes, `PT1H` every hour, and so on.  
**DS Export**- Whether the metric is exportable to Azure Monitor Logs via Diagnostic Settings. For information on exporting metrics, see [Create diagnostic settings in Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/create-diagnostic-settings?tabs=portal).

For information on metric retention, see [Azure Monitor Metrics overview](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/data-platform-metrics#retention-of-metrics)
  
  
  
For a list of supported logs, see [Supported log categories - microsoft.azuresphere/catalogs](../supported-logs/microsoft-azuresphere-catalogs-logs.md)  
  
 

[!INCLUDE[microsoft.azuresphere/catalogs](./includes/microsoft-azuresphere-catalogs-metrics-include.md)]
