azure-monitor-ref/tables/maapplicationhealth.md, before:

---
title: Azure Monitor Logs reference - MAApplicationHealth
description: Reference for MAApplicationHealth table in Azure Monitor Logs.
ms.topic: reference
ms.service: azure-monitor
ms.subservice: logs
ms.author: bwren
author: bwren
ms.date: 6/1/2021
---

# MAApplicationHealth

 

## Categories

- Desktop Analytics
## Solutions

- Microsoft365Analytics




## Columns

|Column|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|ActiveDevicesOnSource|int||
|ActiveDevicesOnTarget|int||
|AppLanguage|string||
|AppName|string||
|AppVendor|string||
|AppVersion|string||
|DevicesWithCrashesOnSource|int||
|DevicesWithCrashesOnTarget|int||
|DevicesWithCrashesPercentOnTargetForCommercial|real||
|HealthStatus|string||
|OSVersion|string||
|ProgramId|string||
|SessionsWithCrashesOnSource|int||
|SessionsWithCrashesOnTarget|int||
|SessionsWithCrashesPercentOnTargetForCommercial|real||
|SourceSystem|string||
|TimeGenerated|datetime||
|TotalDevicesInstalledOnSource|int||
|TotalDevicesInstalledOnTarget|int||
|TotalSessionsOnSource|int||
|TotalSessionsOnTarget|int||
|Type|string|The name of the table|

Commit message:

Note for Desktop Analytics tables

azure-monitor-ref/tables/maapplicationhealth.md, after:

---
title: Azure Monitor Logs reference - MAApplicationHealth
description: Reference for MAApplicationHealth table in Azure Monitor Logs.
ms.topic: reference
ms.service: azure-monitor
ms.subservice: logs
ms.author: bwren
author: bwren
ms.date: 6/1/2021
---

# MAApplicationHealth

![Note on Desktop Analytics table not intended for direct query](../../includes/azure-monitor-reference-ma-tables.md)

## Categories

- Desktop Analytics
## Solutions

- Microsoft365Analytics




## Columns

|Column|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|ActiveDevicesOnSource|int||
|ActiveDevicesOnTarget|int||
|AppLanguage|string||
|AppName|string||
|AppVendor|string||
|AppVersion|string||
|DevicesWithCrashesOnSource|int||
|DevicesWithCrashesOnTarget|int||
|DevicesWithCrashesPercentOnTargetForCommercial|real||
|HealthStatus|string||
|OSVersion|string||
|ProgramId|string||
|SessionsWithCrashesOnSource|int||
|SessionsWithCrashesOnTarget|int||
|SessionsWithCrashesPercentOnTargetForCommercial|real||
|SourceSystem|string||
|TimeGenerated|datetime||
|TotalDevicesInstalledOnSource|int||
|TotalDevicesInstalledOnTarget|int||
|TotalSessionsOnSource|int||
|TotalSessionsOnTarget|int||
|Type|string|The name of the table|
